# CLIENT CONTACT MANAGER

# REST API for Client Database

Before starting, make sure you have Node.js version 12 or higher installed.

To start the server, navigate to the repository folder and run the command `node index`. To stop the server, press the CTRL+C key combination.

Once the server is running, the API will be available at `http://localhost:3000`.

## API Methods

All API methods that require a request body expect the body to be in JSON format. All method responses are also returned in JSON format.

* `GET /api/clients` - retrieve the list of clients. URL parameters:
* `search={search string}` - search query; if provided, the method will return clients whose first name, last name, middle name, or one of their contact details contains the specified substring.
* `POST /api/clients` - create a new client. The request body should contain the client object. The response body of a successfully processed request will contain the object with the created client.
* `GET /api/client/{id}` - retrieve client data by their ID. The response body of a successfully processed request will contain the client object.
* `PATCH /api/client/{id}` - update client data with the given ID. The response body of a successfully processed request will contain the object with the updated client.
* `DELETE /api/client/{id}` - delete the client with the given ID.

## Client Object Structure

```javascript
{
  // Client ID, automatically generated by the server, cannot be changed after creation
  id: '1234567890',
  // Client creation date and time, automatically set by the server, cannot be changed after creation
  createdAt: '2021-02-03T13:07:29.554Z',
  // Client update date and time, automatically set by the server upon modification
  updatedAt: '2021-02-03T13:07:29.554Z',
  // * required field, client's first name
  name: 'Vasiliy',
  // * required field, client's last name
  surname: 'Pupkin',
  // optional field, client's middle name
  lastName: 'Vasilyevich',
  // contacts - optional field, array of contacts
  // each object in the array (if provided) should contain non-empty properties type and value
  contacts: [
    {
      type: 'Phone',
      value: '+71234567890'
    },
    {
      type: 'Email',
      value: 'abc@xyz.com'
    },
    {
      type: 'Facebook',
      value: 'https://facebook.com/vasiliy-pupkin-the-best'
    }
  ]
}
```

## Possible Response Statuses

Ответ сервера может содержать один из статусов ответа:
* `200` - the request was processed successfully
* `201` - the request to create a new item was successfully processed, and the Location header contains a link to the GET method for retrieving the created item
* `404` - the method specified in the request does not exist or the requested item was not found in the database
* `422` - the object provided in the request body did not pass validation. The response body contains an array with descriptions of the validation error
  ```javascript
  [
    {
      field: 'Name of the object field where the error occurred',
      message: 'Error message that can be shown to the user'
    }
  ]
  ```
* `500` - strangely, the server broke down :( Contact me to resolve the issue.


# Frontend Launch Instructions

## Before You Begin

Make sure that the backend of your application is up and running. Follow the steps provided in the backend setup instructions to start the server.

## Launching the Frontend

1. Open your file manager and navigate to the folder containing the frontend part of your application.

2. Locate the `index.html` file.

3. Double-click on `index.html` to open it in your web browser.

4. The frontend of your application should now be available in the browser. Ensure that it is connected to the backend and displaying data correctly.

---

That's all you need to do to launch the frontend of your application!
